# How does a microcontroller platform differ from a microcontroller?

A microcontroller is an integrated circuit(IC) that contains a processor, memory, and other peripherals. It's the raw chip.

A microcontroller platform is a development system built around a micocontroller--or multiple microcontrollers. Typically this includes the microcontroller(s), power regulation, clock circuitry, a USB interface, and an IDE and libraries.

Arduino(a microcontroller platform), includes a subset of the C++ languages. Keywords such as pinMode() and digitalWrite() are abstractions that make it easier to code at a high level, rather than needing to understand how ram and shift registers are manipulated.

# What is Open-Source Software?

Open Source software focuses on making the code available, rather than software that is delivered as a compiled binary. There are many advantages, such as maintainability, reliability, collaberation, and security. Essentially any code that isn't open source can't be easily verrified to not include backdoors or exploitation pathways. From a security perspective, open source software reduces the potetntional attack surface.

on top of OS itself, there is also free and open source software. Free meaning as in liberty not as in gratuity. The freedom comes with the ability to modify and redistrubute the software.

# What is the GPL? How do GPL and LGPL differ?

The GPL is the GNU(GNU's not Unix) General public License. The GPL allows for running, inspecting, and modifying the code, as well as redistributing the code in both it's modified and unmodified form.

The difference between the GPL and LGPL is that the GPL forces all derivitive work to also be released under the GPL. All code in the project must be under the GPL. 

The LGPL allows for using libraries in the project that aren't under the GPL or LGPL. This is useful in situations where propriatry code or algorithms are included in a project.

# What is the model numbers of the two microcontrollers on the Arduino Uno?

ATmega328P - The main microcontroller

ATmega16U2 - This acts as a USB to serial converter. 
