# ICCI1105A — Automation Systems  
## Chapter 18 Assignment: Instrument Calibration

1. To range an instrument means to set the (1)________ so it responds with the desired sensitivity to changes in input.

* $1:$ LRV and URV. 

This is done to ensure the device responnds appropriately to changes within the span.

2. A span shift calibration error shifts the slope of the function, which is equivalent to altering the value of (1)________ in the slope-intercept equation; while a zero shift calibration error is equivalent to altering the value of (2)________ in the slope-intercept equation.

* $1:\ m$ - This procduces a a wider output range than intended. The output is stretched or compressed.

* $2:\ b$ - If we map $0-100\ PSI\ to\ 4-20\ mA$, a zero shift would output some `mA` at `0\ PSI` other than the expected `4\ mA`, while the slope would stay the same. 

3. A linearity calibration error causes the instrument’s response function to no longer be a (1)________.

4. What effect does hysteresis calibration error have?

5. An important principle in calibration practice is to document every instrument’s calibration as it was found and as it was left after adjustments were made. The purpose for documenting both conditions is to make data available for calculating instrument (1)________ over time.

6. What is Damping, and how is it implemented?

7. What do the following calibration terms/acronyms represent?

   - LRV  
   - URV  
   - PV  
   - AO  
   - IUT

8. The calibration function in the A/D and D/A converters of Smart Transmitters is called digital (1)________.

9. The purpose of calibrating an instrument with both increasing and decreasing PV is to determine if the instrument has any significant (1)________.

10. A temperature switch with a deadband of 15 °C set to trip at 135 °C falling would re-set at (1)________ rising.

11. What are the 4 “building block components” of:  
   a) a Smart Pressure Transmitter?  
   b) an Analog Pressure Transmitter?
