# ICCI1105A — Automation Systems  
## Chapter 21 Assignment: Temperature Measurement

* Temperature is the measure of ________ molecular kinetic energy within a substance,  
while Thermal Energy is a measure of the ________ kinetic energy.  
Heat is a measure of the ________ of Thermal Energy.

* If we bond these two strips of metal together, this differential growth will result in a bending motion greatly exceeding the linear expansion. This device is called a ____________________.

* The major difference between thermistors and RTDs is linearity:  
  thermistors are highly __________ but __________,  
  whereas RTDs are relatively __________ but very __________.

* RTDs are made of pure ____________________.

* Instead of using an Ohm-meter to measure RTD resistance, a 4-Wire RTD circuit uses:  
  a __________ and a __________.

* What is the advantage of using a 4-Wire RTD circuit (over a 2-wire one) to measure temperature?

______________________________________________________________________________

* Though typically not as __________ as RTDs, thermocouples are more rugged, have greater temperature measurement spans, and are easier to manufacture in different physical forms.

* When two dissimilar metal wires are joined together at one end, a __________ is produced at the other end that is approximately proportional to temperature.

* What 2 metals are used to make a Type J thermocouple?

______________________________________________________________________________

* Why is “reference junction” compensation required in thermocouple circuits?

______________________________________________________________________________

* Which of thermistor, thermocouple, or RTD:

  - Can have a negative temperature co-efficient?  
  - Is non-linear?  
  - Is useful only at low temperatures?  
  - Is useful at very high temperatures?  
  - Is the most accurate and stable for most industrial applications?  
  - Is the least costly?  
  - Generate their own electric potential (do not require power)?

* Referring to the following diagram:  
  - Circle the Sensing Junction  
  - Put a square around the reference junction  
  - Put a triangle around the location of the temp compensation thermistor  

  What metals are in the “Extension wire”?

______________________________________________________________________________

* A major disadvantage of non-contact thermometry is that it only reveals the __________ temperature of an object.

* When measuring temperature with “Non-contact pyrometers,” sometimes referred to as infrared thermocouples, why does the distance separating the sensor from the target object’s surface not affect the reading even though infra-red radiation intensity decreases by the inverse square law?

______________________________________________________________________________

* A very useful application of non-contact sensor technology is ____________________, where a dense array of infrared radiation sensors provides a graphic display of objects in its view artificially colored on a chromatic scale that varies with temperature, hot objects typically registering as red tones and cold objects typically registering as __________ tones.

* A ____________________ is a thermally conductive protrusion into a process vessel or pipe allowing a temperature-sensitive instrument to detect process temperature without opening a hole in the vessel or pipe.

---

# Videos

* **Video:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bhrjhE0PdQA  
  What are the typical temperature ranges for:  
  - Thermistors:  
  - RTDs:  
  - Thermocouples:

* For which of the above is wire length a major concern?

* Which of the above has a very large change in resistance (per change in temperature)?

---

* **Video:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YugXyuTfXtk  
  - What type of thermocouple was measured in the video?  
  - What was the resistance of the thermocouple?  
  - What was the resistance of the thermistor?  
  - What was the resistance of the RTD?

---

* **Video:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=12yINJakfZA  
  - The most common type of RTD is the __________.  
  - Which of RTDs and Thermocouples have a faster response time?  
  - Which of RTDs and Thermocouples have a greater temperature range?  
  - Which of RTDs and Thermocouples is more stable over time?  
  - Three common Thermocouple types are:  
  - Can copper wire be used to extend connections to a Thermocouple?  
  - Which of RTDs and Thermocouples produces a voltage?
