# Assignment #5

## Part A

### 1. Write instructions to move the value `0x34` into the `R29` register.

`LDI R29, 0x34`

### 3. Write instructions to add the values `0x16` and `0xCD`. Place the result in the `R19` register.  

`LDI R19, 0x16`

`LDI R20, 0xCD`

`ADD R19, R20`

### 4. **True or False:** No value can be moved directly into the GPRs.  

False, no value can be moved directly into some GPRs, but not all 

### 5. What is the largest hex value that can be moved into an 8-bit register?  

  * 'hex': 'RR'

   * What is the decimal equivalent of that hex value?  

  * 'dec': '255'

### 6. The vast majority of registers in the AVR are _____-bit.  

* '8'

---

## Part B

### 1. **True or False:** No value can be loaded directly into internal SRAM.  

* 'True'

### 2. Write instructions to load value `0x95` into the `SPL` I/O register.  

'LDI R16, 0x95'

'OUT SPL, R16'

### 3. Write instructions to add `2` to the contents of `R18`.  

'LDI R19, 0x02'

'ADD R18, R19'

### 4. Write instructions to add the values `0x16` and `0xCD`. Place the result in location `0x400` of the data memory.  

'LDI R16, 0x16'
'LDI R17, 0xCD'
'ADD R16, R17'
'STS 0x0400, R16'


### 5. What is the largest hex value that can be moved into a location in the data memory?  

   * 'hex': 'FF'
   
   * What is the decimal equivalent of the hex value?

   * 'dec': '255'


### 6. `"ADD R16, R3"` puts the result in _____. 

* 'R16'

### 7. What does `"OUT OCR0, R23"` do?

* Transfers the contents of the register R23 to the OCR0 register in I/O space

### 8. What is wrong with `"STS OCR0, R23"`? What does it do?

* sts accesses SRAM, not I/O space. It will write to a memory location with the same address number, but not the intended I/O space
